What's up, Life in the English family? This episode is going
to be long as fuck because I got a whole lot to say about
this particular subject and every single one of these things
I'm about to say is something I wish somebody would have
told me when I was 20 years old, and I had decided that I
wanted to do creative work.
So here are some pieces of advice for all you young,
creative people who dream of making a living, doing creative
work. And I guess I shouldn't say all you young people,
because, you know, middle-aged and older people can be
creative and can start careers doing creative work later in
life. Right? So I'm not trying to discriminate here. But
anyway, think of this as like advice to my younger creative
self, knowing that many people out there are in the same
position. How about that? Now these pieces of advice are
coming from somebody who for years now has thought about and
only recently really tried to figure out how to make a
living doing creative work. So I don't claim to have all the
answers, but I have learned some important lessons from my
experiences. So that's what I'm gonna share with you today.
Now, before we get started, I want to make it clear that I'm
going to be giving very general advice for two reasons. The
first reason is I could literally talk for the next 3 hours
straight about this subject, and I wouldn't get tired, but
none of us got time for any of that shit, so I'm just going
to be as concise as I possibly can without being vague. The
second reason is the best advice is usually given when it's
based on real situations. So without knowing what situation
you're in at the moment, it would be hard to give some
specific advice. And I also want to make it clear that I'll
be using the words "artist" and "creator" and even sometimes
"entrepreneur" interchangeably for the duration of this
episode. So when I say "artist", I also mean "content
creator" or "entrepreneur" and vice versa. Alright? So let's
get started, man. The first piece of advice I got for you,
you know, all you young creatives out there is to understand
the difference between an artist and an entrepreneur. Now, a
lot of talented artists have given people the impression
that making a living as an artist is easy to do. And now
that I hear myself, you know, reading my notes here, I just
said I was going to be using "artists" and "entrepreneur"
and "creator" interchangeably. And then my first piece of
advice is knowing the difference between the two. So let me
go back. I'll be using the words "artist" and "creator"
interchangeably. Not "entrepreneur". Entrepreneur is
something different. And that's the first piece of advice is
to understand that difference. Okay? So now let me get back
to my notes here. So a lot of talented artists have given
people the impression that making a living as an artist is
easy to do. But it is not easy. It's easier than ever
before. But it's not easy. Some of these artists or creators
are just shovel salesmen who want to capitalize on your
vulnerability. And when I say vulnerability, I mean your
high level of desire and your low level of knowledge that
cause you to make decisions based on emotion and lofty
aspirations rather than logic and patience. Now, before I
continue, let me explain what I mean when I use the term
"shovel salesmen". Now I'm referring to the California Gold
Rush. I don't know what year it was, and I don't know if
this is true. But, you know, years and years and years ago
when everybody was rushing to California to dig for gold, it
said that the people selling the shovels used to dig for the
gold made more money than the majority of people actually
digging for gold. And I'm not saying that, you know, all
shovel salesmen are bad or manipulative or anything like
that. I'm saying that some people try to make a task look
easier than it is, just so they can sell you the tools you
need in order to complete that task. And it's crucial that
you recognize these people when you come across them. But
many other artists give this false impression of life as a
creator without knowing it. They simply neglect to expose
their followers to all the work that goes into consistently
producing high quality content. Most likely because it never
crosses their mind or they, you know, wouldn't think or they
don't think it would make interesting content. And generally
speaking, very creative people tend to lack structure and
discipline. They're not interested in doing the same thing
every day or adhering to a schedule, answering to a boss or
anything like that. They thrive on inspiration, not routine.
They want to be free to experiment, explore, create, and
express themselves. And so, many young, creative people fall
in love with the idea of being able to wake up and do
nothing but creative things. But they don't understand that
there's a difference between waking up and only doing what
you enjoy and getting paid to wake up and only do what you
enjoy. The business, much like life is both an art and a
science. As an artist, you must understand that working for
yourself looks glamorous on Instagram, but there's nothing
glamorous about working 80 to 100 hours a week with no
guarantee that you'll never be paid for that work. Excuse
me. Ever be paid.
Let me say that again. As an artist, you must understand
that working for yourself looks glamorous on the Instagram,
but there's nothing glamorous about working 80 to 100 hours
a week with no guarantee that you will ever be paid for that
work. You must understand that artists know how to make art.
And entrepreneurs know how to make money. And unless you can
figure out how to do both, you'll never be paid money to
make art. So don't be fooled by these creative liberal types
who try to demonize capitalism and make it seem like getting
paid good money is a sin because everyone is a capitalist,
whether they like it or not. And the fact of the matter is,
without money, you wouldn't even be able to pay for the food
you need in order to survive long enough to create something
meaningful. So you've either got to get a job or learn how
to make money for yourself. Which brings me to my next piece
of advice. Understand that you have two choices. Do
everything yourself or pay someone to do it for you. And
this will make or break your chances of success. Every
creator and entrepreneur gets to a point where he or she is
responsible for too many parts of the production process. So
let's use YouTube creators as an example. Before you see a
high quality YouTube video, there are a lot of things that
need to be done by the creator. Things such as research
about the video topic, write the video script, or at least
think of the main talking points, create an interesting, yet
concise title that makes you want to watch the video. Create
an eye-catching descriptive thumbnail that quickly and
clearly communicates what you're about to watch. Decide how
they're going to record the video, set up the camera gear
and the microphone. Record the video. Transfer the video
files to their computer and cloud storage. Edit the video,
and you have no idea how many hours a good video can take.
You really just don't understand how much time goes into
great video editing. You just don't. You just. You just
don't understand, bro. You don't understand. But anyway,
next step, upload the YouTube video, upload the thumbnail,
write the video description. Decide what day and time the
video will be posted. Monitor the video's performance with
analytical data from YouTube. Figure out why people aren't
watching the entire video. Figure out how to make the videos
better so people watch them completely, re-edit the video in
various ways so you can promote it on multiple video based
social platforms. Post those videos on each of the
platforms. Engage with the audience and use their feedback
for new and better video ideas, research trends, and changes
in your industry to make sure you're always the best in your
space. Because there are 30 other creators ready to take
your viewers attention away from you at any given moment.
Just saying all those steps made me tired, bro. Imagine one
person doing all of them for each and every video they
produced. Only one of two things would happen. They would
try to do it all and all of it would be mediocre because
it's impossible to give 100% of your heart, soul, and energy
to such a long list of challenging tasks every single day
for years. And it's also impossible to be the best in your
field at all of those tasks. Number two, they would end up
quitting because they know they can't do it all themselves
and they need to make money. So they'll go work a job
instead. And this is true for creators and entrepreneurs
alike. You cannot do everything by yourself. As a creator,
you should be spending as much of your energy as possible on
the thing you're best at. And in this case, that's being
creative. Your creative work is something that no one in the
world can do but you. Is Elon Musk manually building each
and every Tesla that sold? No.
Is Mark Zuckerberg writing every line of code for the
metaverse? I doubt it. Did Steve Jobs assemble each and
every one of the iPhones himself? Of course, not. All of
them focused on what they were best at and delegated the
rest of the work to capable employees. So you must focus on
the activities that give you energy and make you forget
about time. You must pay people to do the things that rob
you of your energy and make you wish time would pass faster.
If you can't manage to do this, you'll most likely lose all
passion for your work and give it up completely or falsely
conclude that it's impossible to make money doing what you
enjoy. It's not impossible. You just need to learn how to
create systems and delegate tasks to people the same way the
owners of the company you work for do to your boss and your
boss does to you. Which takes me to my next piece of advice.
Learn about the fundamentals of business. If you don't
understand how a business operates, you won't be in business
for very long. Now the good news is you can learn everything
there is to know about business using only the internet and
some good communication skills. There are decades worth of
free content that will teach you whatever you want to know,
and sending direct messages to people you'd like to work
with doesn't cost you a dollar. That means there's nothing
stopping you from learning how to build the infrastructure
that will support the life you actually want to live. Now,
it's fucking hard. But it's easier than it's ever been. And
I want you to remember that whenever you think about
quitting. But getting back to my actual point, you must
understand how a business operates. You must understand the
difference between being self employed and being a business
owner. You've got to learn about things like the difference
between a product and a service, sales, marketing, finance,
what to do with and how to reinvest your money, leadership
skills, managing teams, branding, and a whole bunch of other
stuff. And I know that may sound hella boring and daunting
in the beginning, but if you want to be the boss, you've got
to pay the cost. You must be willing to educate yourself.
And fortunately, these days, there are many ways to do that.
So my next piece of advice is to understand all the tools
you have available to you today. And all I really have to
say about this is that there has never been a technology
like the Internet before, never in human history. And you
must not take it for granted. You might be sitting at home
thinking about all the reasons you can't do something when
all the reasons you can do something are sitting on the
internet just waiting to be discovered. And what I mean by
that is the Internet is so much bigger and richer than you
realize. And if you know how to navigate it, you can find
information on just about any subject you can think of, from
websites to softwares to online communities and courses.
Creative people literally have all the tools they need to
run their own media company. And when I say media, it could
be video, it could be audio or just written words. It should
be all three, but it doesn't have to be. So the point is
learn how to use the internet like a tool instead of like a
toy. Now my next piece of advice is to think of yourself as
a media company. The legendary Gary Vee has talked about
this for literally a decade, and it's only now that I truly
understand what he means. Because day by day, more and more
people are spending ungodly amounts of time looking at a
smartphone. And what that means is the smartphone is
becoming the center of society's attention. And the only way
you can sell someone something is if you have their
attention and it doesn't matter what you're selling. It
could be time, information, clothes, hope and experience,
cars, paintings, whatever. If you want people to know about
your work or your cause, your business, your mission, your
content, your whatever, you need to figure out how to get
people's attention. What I mean is we know we need to get
people's attention and we know that the smartphone has most
people's attention most of the time. So we need to figure
out how to show up on people's phones and grab their
attention. But everyone's different. Some people spend more
time on Twitter reading and writing short texts, while
others spend more time on YouTube watching long form videos
of all kinds. Other people spend all their time on Reddit.
Others love Instagram and TikTok. And your ideal customers
could be on any one of those platforms. So if you want the
highest possible chance of them discovering your work,
especially without paying for advertising because you're a
broke ass starving artist, then you need to learn how to
appear on their screen using a form of media they already
enjoy consuming whether it be video, audio, written words or
all three.
I'm going to leave some links to videos of Gary Vee talking
to much more detail about the content production model that
he and his team have developed and that I now use to make my
own content. So if you're interested in being a content
creator, artist or entrepreneur, and you like to talk in
more depth about this with me, please join the Discord
Server and send me a message because I really find this
stuff fascinating, as I'm sure you could tell. But anyway,
my next piece of advice for all you creatives out there,
please understand that you do not have to work for yourself
in order to do creative work. Working for yourself isn't the
only way to make money doing creative work. Like I said
before, trying to work for yourself could easily end up
robbing you of all your passion for your craft. So before
you stretch yourself out trying to find a way to monetize
your artwork, consider a life in which you're paid to do
various kinds of creative work. But someone else worries
about things like payroll, reinvesting profits, coordinating
schedules, buying materials, marketing the product, creating
brand strategies and so on and so forth. Finding a quality
creative job at a good company is just as hard as creating
your own company, in my opinion. But owner and employee are
two very different positions within a company and a lot of
people should spend their time and energy simply trying to
find the right employer instead of trying to become one. You
might also find that you have other skills that are more
valuable to the job market. So you could end up having a
career in a different field and keep producing your artwork
and your free time. And at the end of the day, it's all
subjective and it all comes down to self awareness, like
everything in life. So my next piece of advice for all you
young creatives is to harness the power of broke.
And this idea comes from the great entrepreneur and
investor, Daymond John. I don't know if you guys are
familiar. Maybe you guys watch Shark Tank or you've heard of
FUBU. He's a dude that created that fashion brand. But
anyway, he's written a book about it. I got this idea from
him and he calls it Harnessing the Power of Broke. Let me
explain. A huge mistake that inexperienced creators make is
wasting money on the best equipment and or wasting time on
tasks that don't really matter in the beginning of their
careers. Like you don't need the new Sony A7S to record a
great video. You don't need a Shure SM7B to record your
podcast. You don't need a MacBook Pro to edit videos or
design graphics. You don't need to build the sickest website
or spend weeks planning. You need to take whatever you have
available to you and just start doing shit. I suggest you do
this because you're most likely broke and you can't afford
to tie up your money in equipment, especially when you don't
even know how to make money with that equipment yet. You
don't even know if you really want to do this for a living.
And in the event that you discover you do, or excuse me, in
the event you discover you don't want to do it, you'd be
stuck with a bunch of expensive equipment that you have no
use for. And when you try to sell it, you're not going to
get as much as you paid for it because equipment,
especially, you know, electronic equipment loses its value
the minute a newer model comes out. And we all know a new
model comes out every fucking six days. Now, before I
continue, let me explain what I mean when I say tie up,
because I said you don't want to tie your money up in
equipment. The first overt tie up in this case is more
figurative. Think of it like a metaphor, because when you
spend money, a $1,000 on an expensive camera, now you don't
have $1,000 cash anymore. That money is sitting
metaphorically or figuratively in the camera. So if you need
1000 cash or 200 or 500 to pay your bills or to do something
real quick, you can't because all your money is sitting in
that camera that you don't even know how to use to make
money. So now your money is tied up. It's stuck. It's in
prison. The camera is now a prison for that money that you
spent when you could do a whole lot more with liquid cash,
cash in your hand or your bank account that you can spend on
various things, more important things. So in its essence,
that's what I mean when I say tie your money up, okay? When
you're broke, every dollar is precious to you. You can't
afford to waste your money. And this financial poverty will
force you to think outside the box when looking for
solutions to problems that can only be solved with money.
And this will get you in the habit of making smart decisions
with your money, even if you end up being rich one day. If
there's one thing I've learned from all the entrepreneurs I
follow, it's that even as multimillionaires, they always
start a new company in the cheapest way and the most
efficient way possible. That's how you become a millionaire
and stay a millionaire. You feel me? I mean, just think
about all the billion dollar companies that were started in
people's garages. They didn't build offices and factories
and hire hundreds of employees to run a corporation. They
just started with what they had, and they grew from there.
But anyway, the point is, don't waste precious money and
time on things that don't really make a difference in your
ability to create. Have you ever asked yourself what camera
was used to record The Avengers movie? Have you ever
stopped to consider what type of microphone Kendrick Lamar
used to record his last album? I doubt it, because if you're
like most people, you don't give a fuck. You just want to
watch and listen to or read something good. You
subconsciously know that a camera cannot record a great
video or make a great photograph. A microphone cannot
produce a classic record. A computer cannot edit a feature
film. Those are the things that artists do. Mr. Beast, one
of the biggest YouTubers on the planet, got his first
200,000 subscribers with nothing more than an iPhone. He
recorded and edited all of the videos on an iPhone.
Casey Neistat shot feature films with a point-and-shoot
camera. For four years now, I've been recording this podcast
with the same $70 microphone that I bought on Amazon and
using my iPhone 7 as a video camera. It's not the camera or
the microphone that really matters. It's what you do with it
once you turn it on. Now, another piece of advice I got for
you is to remember that it's totally normal and it's okay to
copy people in the beginning. Do not feel bad for copying
people you look up to when you just get started. Everyone
does that. We all start somewhere and all of us learn by
imitating those around us. Right? That's how you learn your
first language. That's how you learn to walk. That's how you
learn to play soccer. Right? Some people say there's nothing
new under the sun, which basically means you're almost
certainly not going to create something that the world has
never seen before. Every work of art is in some way a copy
of one or many other creations. And another way of saying
that is every work of art is in some way inspired by
another. All artists steal ideas and techniques to make
their work better. But the key is not to take someone else's
style and try to make it your own. The key is to take
someone else's style and let it influence your own. Many
artists who want to blow up are tempted to copy whatever is
popular at the moment because they think whatever is popular
is what is good. But just because it's popular and making
money doesn't mean it's good. There's no such thing as good
or bad art. Art is any form of creative expression. Right?
And there's no wrong way to express oneself through artwork.
And just because it's popular today doesn't mean it'll be
popular next month. So remember that it's normal to imitate
your peers in the beginning. But if you want to stand out
and differentiate yourself, you can not do that forever.
You've got to come up with your own unique style. You've got
to be yourself and let that shine through your work. So if
somebody tells you that your work reminds them of someone
else's, you haven't found your own style yet. Alright, my
next piece of advice. Remember that absolutely no one gives
a fuck about your work.
I don't care what they tell you, nobody cares. This is
another one that a lot of people don't consider before they
try a career as an artist or an entrepreneur. It's lonely as
fuck, bro.
Because you're essentially saying to the world, I don't like
the life path that was created for me. I do not like the
terms and conditions of society's user agreement. So I'm
going to create and walk my own path and live life on my
terms. It sounds sexy as fuck when you see or hear an
influencer on Instagram saying that shit, but there's
nothing glamorous about it, my friend. Alright? It's lonely
as fuck. I'm not saying that there aren't people in this
world who love and care about you. I'm just saying that you
shouldn't expect anyone to care about your journey the same
way you do. Because people are occupied with their lives.
Right?
And in many cases people will think you're a loser for doing
what you're doing instead of getting a job anyway. Right?
Like a real adult. Other people would love nothing more than
to see you fail. And this, of course, is true in many
endeavors, not just art and entrepreneurship. So I guess
what I'm really trying to say is you should know that will
probably come a time when you realize that you're alone on
this one. No one is coming to make sure that you're doing
what you're supposed to do. No one is coming to pick you up
and put you back on your feet when life inevitably punches
you in the mouth. So if you can't motivate and rely on
yourself, this life probably isn't for you. My next
piece of advice. Prepare to be in this game for the long
haul. Because this is a marathon, not a sprint. We've all
heard expressions like "Rome wasn't built in a day",
"Nothing good happens overnight", "Nothing that's meaningful
will come easily", right? It's the same for any skill or
successful career. You've got to think about this process
and life itself like a marathon. You know, Nipsey talked
about this all the time. He said instead of trying to build
a brick wall, just focus on laying a brick. One brick at a
time. Brick by brick, by brick, by brick. And eventually
you'll look up and realize you built the whole wall. So the
message is just put your head down and work. Detach yourself
from the results and the outcomes. If something doesn't go
the way you wanted it to go, just take a step back, assess
the situation, and figure out how you can come stronger and
more correct the next time. And do that until the day you
die and you'll be fine. So remember, it's a marathon, not a
sprint.
Next piece of advice, my friends. Remember that ideas are
easy, but execution is the hard part, and that's all that
matters. And this one is super important because a lot of
creative people think all their ideas are the shit. Fucking
amazing. That would be awesome. "I'm brilliant!", right? But
the problem with ideas is they aren't real.
Ideas live in this imaginary world. I can't buy dinner or
build a house or wash my car with an idea.
The only three things I can actually do with the idea - talk
about it, which is what most of us do; forget about it,
which is what most of us eventually do; or execute on it.
Until you execute on an idea, it means nothing, bro. And the
only way to know if an idea is actually good is if you try
to execute on it. So understand that you'll probably have
hundreds or thousands of ideas over the years, and most of
them will be shit. And that's okay. The more you try to
execute on your ideas, the more real-world experience you
will get. And that experience will help you to get a better
idea of what kinds of things are worth your time and energy
and which ones are not. For example, you might want to
produce your own movies. You want to be a filmmaker, and you
hate the idea of putting your films on YouTube for free, and
you also hate the idea of licensing them to Netflix. So you
decide you're going to build your own version of Netflix and
convince the world to subscribe to your platform and pay to
stream your independent films. You keep all the money, you
have all the control, right? Sounds amazing on the surface.
But let's think about it a little bit more deeply. Are you
sure you know what it takes to build a platform like
Netflix? Do you have any idea how much money that would
cost? Do you really want to be responsible for marketing not
only your movies, but the streaming platform people have to
watch it on? Are you sure your movies are so good that
people are going to pay you for them? Do you know what it
takes to operate an online business? Are you really going to
compete with the multimillion dollar media company that is
Netflix? Do you really think you can get people to stop
watching YouTube videos and watch your movies instead? These
are just a few questions that you'd really need to consider
before embarking on a journey such as that one. You might
quickly realize that your idea simply sounds good, but it
would be a monumental waste of time trying to execute on it.
And that leads me to my next piece of advice. You must
become ridiculously self-aware. I could go very deep into
this topic right here because there are so many things that
could be considered when it comes to self awareness. But out
of respect for your time and to stay on topic, I'll just say
that being aware of your thought process and your daily
habits is essential when trying to better one's life or
achieve a difficult goal. I believe that self-awareness is
the key to making sure that you never make the wrong
decision in life. The more you understand yourself, your
purpose in life, and have a clear vision of what you want
for your life, the easier it will be to make decisions that
lead you in the direction you want your life to go in. So if
you can't take a step back and take a pragmatic look at
yourself, you may never figure out what you are doing to
fuck your life up. You may never find any real direction in
life because you can't even figure out where you really want
to go. And so you may end up drifting from place to place to
place, right?
Going wherever life takes you. And please understand,
there's absolutely nothing wrong with living your life that
way. I'm just saying that if you're going to live your life
that way, then it's better that you be aware you're doing
it. As opposed to waking up 40 years later, realizing that
you wasted your life simply because you never decided to
take control of it. You know what I'm saying? So trust me, I
know it can take years, sometimes even decades, for some of
us to figure out what we really want to do with our lives.
But waiting until tomorrow to get started will only make it
take longer. My next piece of advice.
Save your fucking money.
Save your fucking money, bro. Put it in your pocket. You
don't need to spend it. Trust me. I know you don't. I know I
don't even fucking know you. And I know you don't need to
spend it. Cut that shit out, man. This one is certainly for
the young people listening to this right now. Save your
fucking money. Resist the urge to go out with friends and
buy overpriced drinks for temporary pleasure. Resist the
urge to buy another ounce of weed. Resist the urge to buy
new clothes just to impress people. Resist the urge to go
out to restaurants when you know you've got food at home. I
know you probably feel like you're missing out on your
golden years. Because you'll only be 22 years old once in
your lifetime so you want to party, you want to be free, you
want to have fun, you want to enjoy life, right? But listen
to me. There will come a time when you're going to need
money for something much more important than getting drunk
and partying and trying to impress people that you probably
don't even like that much in the first place. Trust me. A
lot of older people refer to like 18 to 30 as the golden
years because they wasted their fucking lives not preparing
themselves for a 30 to 90. This is all...Be young, have fun
party, drink whatever or wasted fucking 18 to 28 studying
sitting in a classroom because somebody told them that was
the guarantee to a better future. Yeah, they call it their
golden years because they know that is the time to set
yourself up for success. Not 30 to 40. Not 40 to 50. Fucking
18, 28, bro.
There are no rules. And I'm speaking very, very, very
generally. Right? I think over generalizing because I know
like I live in the United States of America, an opportunity
here is not the same thing as opportunity in many places
around the world. Like, trust me, I understand that. But I'm
saying. Like if you're young, you have no kids, no spouse,
nothing holding you down or excuse me, holding you back or
tying you down like, bro. Save your fucking money. And just
experiment. Just try shit. Different jobs, study different
things in your free time. Just figure out what you're
interested in. And once you find something that you're like,
"Bro, I could do this every day for the rest of my life."
Once you find something like that or "Bro, I'm so good at
this that people will pay me for it." Once you find some
shit like that, bro, go all in on that shit as soon as
possible. As soon as possible. I'm not saying you're going
to find it between 18 and 28.
I'm just saying there's no better time to start looking. You
know, there's no better time to start looking because you
don't want to be 30, 33, 35, 40 years old with nothing going
on.
No clue of what you want to do. No skills that you've
acquired over the years. No experience or nothing like that.
No money because you wasted it all on some fucking bullshit.
You don't want that. I don't even know you. And I know you
don't want that. Save your money, save your money and focus
on experience, focus on learning, acquiring valuable
skills. So even if it never works for you as an artist in
terms of money, you'll have skills that people will still
pay you for, right?
Save your fucking money because you might realize maybe you
don't think about it at 17 or 18. But guess what? If you
ignore all the bullshit online people are trying to sell
you, some get rich quick scheme, if you ignore all your
loser friends that make fun of you for working two jobs and
not going to school like them, not going to the party on
Friday like them, not chasing girls like them or whatever.
Like, bruh. But if you can ignore all that shit, focus on
yourself and preparing yourself for the life you want to
live, save your money, work hard...four, six years. Bruh,
you can be 24, 25, 26 ready to invest who knows how much
money into a business? Or maybe you can travel for a year
because you saved up so much money. It doesn't matter. You
can always come back and go to school and get a job. That
shit is going nowhere, right? Maybe you can put a
downpayment on a house, whatever you want to do, invest that
money, help your parents, whatever it is. You can't do it if
you don't save your fucking money. You just don't understand
the advantage you have by starting early. Starting early?
You just don't get it. I didn't get it either. I'm still
trying to comprehend it. But bro, you don't understand. The
advantage you have by getting started early when it comes to
acquiring skills, when it comes to saving and investing
money, when it comes to developing your self, your
character, your spirit, your charisma, your communication
skills, your personality, your self-awareness, bro. Do not
underestimate the advantage of getting started early. Okay.
I'm not reading my notes anymore. But this one is super
important, bro. Save your fucking money. Do not waste it on
nonsense. You're going to need it one day because that's
going to come a day. I know this is different in every
culture. I think here in the United States, we're kind of
famous for kicking our kids out of the house at 18, like
"you're a man now, go and make some money!" And I know in
other countries the culture is different. It's totally
normal to be 30 years old living with your parents, and you
might not leave their house until you get married. Here, it
depends on the family, but generally speaking, especially if
you're a man, people will look at you like a fucking loser
if you're 35 living with your parents, especially because
you have to, not because you want to. It's just this weird
cultural thing. But anyway. Anyway, I lost my train of
thought. Hang on. Now I remember what I
was going to say is you don't want to get to whatever age is
too old to be at home with your parents. It could be 30, 35,
40, whatever. You don't want to get to that place where your
parents are like, "yo, you need to get the fuck out". Or you
have no friends that you can stay with. You have no spouse
that you guys can split the bills. You're like, you're on
your own. As an adult and you have no money saved. Like
money is not.
Money is options, bro. Let me let me say it that way. Money
is options. A lot of people think of money in different
ways. It means status; it means wealth; it means I can buy
shit. Fuck all of that. Money is options, bro. The more
money you have, the more options you have. You have no
money..when you have $0 in your bank account, you got very
few options to make some shit happen, to feed yourself or to
pay rent or survive the next 90 days. Then you got to get
real creative, you know what I'm saying? But when you got
money, you got options. You have a little bit of security.
You can sleep well at night knowing "I don't got a job today
or this week, but I got enough money for 6 to 18 months,
living the exact same way I'm living right now." And of
course, I'm just giving random examples at this point, but
I'm just trying to say, like, bruh, do not underestimate the
value, the power of having money saved
to do with whatever you want. To invest in any venture or
endeavor or dream that you've spent the last 8 to 10 years
developing. Save your fucking money, bruh. You are going to
need it. Now my next piece of advice,
do not pay attention to what your peers are doing. It does
not matter. I would like to think it's common knowledge by
now, but I know it's not.
A lot of people still get caught up watching other people
online and focusing on what other people have and what they
don't have. Let me say that differently.
You might be one of those people that focuses on what other
people have and what you do not have. But you can't get
caught up in what your peers are doing or what they appear
to be doing. You'll never know what anyone's life is
actually like unless you spend every hour of every day with
them. And you still might not understand it all because they
were a person before you met them. Like there's so much that
you don't see behind the curtain and there's no reason to
waste your time thinking about that. Like somebody else
making lots of money or having a great time or living their
dreams doesn't really change anything in your life unless
you let it, you know what I'm saying? So there's no reason
to focus on all that shit. You need to focus on being
thankful for what you have, first of all. And I know that
can be difficult depending on how you were raised or what
your life experience is. But you've got to try to be
grateful for what you have, first of all, but then focus on
what you want because then you're just naturally going to
move in that direction if you're always focused on what
everybody else has. You have no direction to go in because
you can't go in their direction and live their life. So
you're kind of just stuck where you are when you could be
moving forward. But you can't move forward and look to the
side at the same time. You're going to run into a wall
eventually. You see what I'm saying? So don't get caught up
in what other people are doing, but I'll focus on what you
want and where you're going, and you'll get there much
faster. That's just my experience, you know? So my next
piece of advice is to nip that wannabe perfectionist shit in
the bud. Now, what do I mean when I say "nip something in
the bud"? What that means is basically go to the root of the
problem, go to the source, and eradicate it at the very
root, not just the top, so that it grows back and it remains
a problem. Go all the way to the source and remove that
motherfucker. Unroot that motherfucker. You understand what
I'm saying? Like, imagine taking a whole tree out of the
earth, removing it from the earth, roots and everything. Nip
it in the bud, eradicate it. Cut it out. Stop it. It's
basically what I'm trying to say. That wannabe perfectionist
shit. You want to be a perfectionist? You say, "Oh, I'm not
ready. I'm a perfectionist. I'm too much of a perfectionist
to post my content and show the world what I can do. It's
not ready yet. Let me work on it for three or four more
months. It's just not ready, you know, I got to put those
finishing touches on the work before the world sees it" is
bullshit, bruh. You're not a perfectionist. You're just
insecure. You think the world is going to judge you and your
work the same way you judge yourself and your work. You
think the world is going to criticize you as harshly as you
criticize yourself. So instead of just posting the shit to
see what happens, you think you know it's going to happen.
And you don't post it, you don't share it, you don't tell
anyone about it. Feel ashamed.
You got to cut that shit out, bro. It's never going to be
perfect. And maybe your art does fucking suck, but you won't
know until you put it out there, my friend. Get out of your
head and put yourself out into the world and wait for the
feedback. It's...It's never going to be perfect, bro.
Ever. And once you get feedback, then you can say, "Hmm,
they like that. Let me do some more of that. Hmm, they don't
like that. Why didn't they like it? I got an audience now.
What would they like to see? Let me fucking ask them." "Hey,
what did you guys think about this video or that painting or
that song," or whatever. You have to put it out there. It's
not going to be perfect, bro. If you want to lie...you want
to live and work as an artist, making money off your ability
to express yourself creatively, you have to put yourself out
there. You cannot separate yourself from your artwork. So
this, I mean, maybe you can, but what I'm trying to say is
it's an extension of you. You're going to have to put it out
there at some point. And actually you are not your artwork.
And for that reason, when somebody talks shit or judges it
or ridicules it or criticizes like, so what, bruh? So who
gives a shit? It's a piece of art. If they don't like it,
they don't...they don't fucking like it. It is what it is.
And you see, in art and business and life, it's all kind of
the same. You could say the same thing about yourself and
your personality. If somebody doesn't like you, who gives a
shit? Who cares?
Like, keep it moving. We don't have to be friends. It's
fine. No hard feelings. It's fine. It's fine. I don't care.
Right? It's the same thing with your artwork, bro. Just put
it out there. Put it out there as much as you can, as fast
as you can. Because with every piece that you produce, if
you're trying to get better and you're really serious about
it, you're really involved in your process, like you're just
naturally going to get better and better and develop over
time. You can't do that if you're not constantly practicing
the same way. You can't build muscle if you're not
constantly working out, you can't build endurance if you're
not constantly doing cardio work, you can't learn how to
speak a language if you're not constantly...it's all the
same, right? So just put it out there, bro. Stop judging
yourself. And remember, most people are not judging you the
way you judge yourself. And even if they are. Fuck them.
Alright? So the next piece of advice.
Remember that you cannot force creative work. You cannot
force creativity. So you need to create or find, discover,
whatever an environment that ensures you never need to force
your creativity. Because energy has a huge impact on your
ability to produce. And what I mean when I say that is the
more self-aware you become, the more you start to analyse
yourself and your environment and how both things affect one
another, you might realize that the house you live in is a
toxic environment and it has an effect on your mood and your
energy to such a degree that you have no energy or space or
quiet time to just focus and create the stuff that you love
to create. So maybe you have to go to the park where you can
be more productive or the library or sit in your car or go
to your friend's house or rent a room or do whatever you got
to do so that you can have an environment that you control
and you can be free to create. Just pay attention to the way
your environment affects your energy and your ability to do
what you do best. Do not underestimate that it could be
people in your life fucking up your flow. It could be where
you live. It could be the time of day that you're trying to
do something. Maybe you should choose a different time.
Maybe you should stop telling certain people about what
you're doing because they always bring their negativity. You
need to be aware of that stuff. For real. Because it all has
an effect on you and you have an effect on your work. So
anyway, my next piece of advice.
My last piece of advice is to read.
Read. Read.
Fucking Read. Read some more. When you finish reading, don't
forget to read. And when I say read, I really mean educate
yourself. Because I fucking hate reading, the activity...I
fucking hate that shit. I like what I get from reading. I
love the information I get from books, the wisdom that
people who took the time to put into book form, I love that.
But actually sitting and looking at the book and scanning
line after line after line, I hate reading. I hate that
shit. I only do it because there's just so much useful
information in books. Right? But the point is, educate
yourself. With videos, podcasts, books, whatever, blog
articles, whatever it is.
Educate yourself constantly. Do not get complacent. Do not
get comfortable. You may think you're a master of what you
do. You may have found a routine and a workflow that works
perfectly for you. You've got to continue innovating,
educating yourself, exploring new things, you know,
experimenting, trying to grow. Do not allow yourself to get
stuck in the same place. Not allow yourself to get stuck in
the past while the world keeps moving forward. Do not get so
attached to your way of doing things or your way of thinking
or your way of seeing the world that you get left behind.
You understand? Whether that be in business with your
artwork and your personal, professional life, whatever.
Educate yourself constantly. If you want to be the best at
what it is you do, if you want to be successful at anything.
Right? You can't be complacent. So I know even once you
reached some level of success, it's easy to want to exhale
and feel good about yourself and get comfortable. But that
is the time that you need to go harder than ever. I've
learned that from experience and from watching other people
I look up to. You got to stay ahead of the game. You don't
want to be playing catch up ever. Which goes back to so many
other things I've said during this episode, like don't
underestimate the value of getting started early and don't
underestimate the value and the power of consistency. That's
consistency in your production rate. That's consistency in
your creative practice. That's consistency in your self
education. Shit is a marathon.
So I sincerely, from the bottom of my heart, hope that some
of these words, some of these ideas, these pieces of advice
that I've gotten from self education and a whole lot of
experience have helped at least one of you. Consider a
different way of looking at this topic, which is trying to
make a living as a creative. Maybe it's giving you some
things to consider. Some things that you might go and
research now or just think about and apply when you take on
that difficult task of, you know, living life on your terms,
doing creative work, you know, living, you know, walking
down the road less traveled, as I say. I really hope that
some of this information or all of it ideally was helpful to
one, if not all of you. But with that, I'm gonna get out of
here, man. So this has been another episode of The Life in
English podcast. I am your host, Tony Kaizen, and I'll talk
to you soon.
Peace!